3.3.2. Wizard Step-2
Figure 34 shows Step-2 of the ANavS® Wizard application. In this step, the Wizard is proving
the communication between the users Laptop/PC and the MS-RTK module. If the error-dialog
as shown in Figure 16 appears, please check again your Wi-Fi/Ethernet connection settings
with the button in the bottom left corner (“Settings”).
On this settings-window one can adjust the settings for the mobile network module, the WiFi module, and the Ethernet module.

Figure 34: Step-2, Interface settings of ANavS RTCM Base Station

Mobile Network Settings:
ANavS delivers all Positioning Systems with already equipped SIM-cards, which are providerindependent and dial-in into the best available mobile network at users’ location. The region
(Europe, North America, Asia, …) is selectable by the customer. The fee of the SIM-cards is
part of a service-contract or directly bookable with ANavS. The following settings are needed
for the SIMs:



APN:
Dial-Up Number:

em
T*99#

Own SIM-cards can also be used. With the 3D printed casing, the user can exchange the SIMcard without any help and extra cost. With the industrial casing, the user must send the SIM
card to ANavS before delivering the Positioning System. If it has to be done afterwards, ANavS
reserves the right to charge for the replacement.
In case of using an own SIM-card, please change the settings here accordingly and click
afterwards to the button “SEND CONFIG” to transmit the new settings to the MS-RTK module.
In the next step, click “(RE-)START 4G” button. If all provided information for the SIM-card are
correct and LTE-reception is available at your position, the field “4G Is Inactive” becomes “4G
is Active” and the color turns from red to green.
The configuration is saved to enable an automatic re-connection with the mobile network
after each reboot.
Wi-Fi Settings (obsolete):
The left section is showing the current Wi-Fi settings. The right section is for the Wi-Fi
configuration. The Wi-Fi-module can be used in four different Modis.




4

Access-Point (AP-STATIC Profile):
The standard/default way is the Access-Point (AP) profile. This means that the MSRTK module is creating its own Wi-Fi-network with the SSID “ANAVS_MSRTK_AP”
with password “anavsrtk” and static IP 192.168.42.1. Please use this mode for your
first steps to get familiar with the system.
Client DHCP-Mode (CLI-DHCP Profile):
With this selected profile, the MS-RTK module tries to connect to an existing Wi-Fi
network with a running DCHP-server running on it. To give the information to the
MSRTK module, please use the “SCAN” Button and select the suitable SSID from the
dropdown-list. After this, please define the Password in the dialog-window, activate
the “ADD” radio button and click “APPLY NEW CONFIGURATION”. It is possible to
define a lot of known Wi-Fi-networks. But take care, you must know the assigned IPaddress to your MSRTK module in your network to be able to communicate with the
ANavS® Wizard to the MSRTK module. The new IP must be signed in the message box
by clicking on the “Settings”-button in the bottom left corner. A detailed description
of how to find the IP-address of your MSRTK module is described in the ANavS
knowledge base “Using the IP scanning-tool NMAP” 4. Another knowledge base

Using the IP scanning-tool NMAP: https://anavs.com/knowledgebase/using-the-ip-scanning-tool-nmap/





article is explaining how to broadcast RTK-Data from your ANavS RTK reference
station directly via Wi-Fi to your MS-RTK module 5.
Client Static-Mode (CLI-STATIC Profile):
With this selected profile, the MS-RTK module tries to connect to an existing Wi-Fi
network without a running DCHP-server running on it. The procedure for
configuration is the same as for the CLI-DHCP profile.
Powered-Off Wi-Fi module (OFF Profile):
Use this mode to save power consumption or to reduce traffic in the Wi-Fi frequency
range. BUT NOT RECOMMENDED.

Ethernet Settings:
The left section is showing the current Ethernet settings. The right section is for the Ethernet
configuration. The Ethernet module can be used in three different Modis.






DHCP-Mode (DHCP Profile):
With this default setting, the Ethernet port is waiting to get an IP address of a DHCP
server (e.g., from a router). After connecting the MS-RTK module via Ethernet cable
with a router/DHCP-server, you can identify the MSRTK modules IP-address via the
Ethernet information section in the Wizard window, the dashboard of your router or
scanning the network as explained in the knowledge base article “Using the IP
scanning-tool NMAP”.
Static-Mode (STATIC Profile):
Another option is to set a static IP for the MSRTK module and directly connect it with
another device or laptop with same static IP range address.
Powered-Off Ethernet port (OFF Profile):
Use this mode to save power consumption. BUT NOT RECOMMENDED.
3.3.3. Wizard Step-3

The next step proves the GNSS antenna connection. The user can only go forwards if it
matches in a proper way. To pass this step, the GNSS antennas need to be correctly connected
and set up in an environment where GNSS signals can be received (not indoor).
The following circumstances would prevent a successful GNSS-antenna connection:


Failure in Antenna-Status: The positioning system need only some more boot-time for
the OS and some time for gather satellite information (30 – 90sec).

Broadcasting RTCM-Data for MSRTK Modules: https://anavs.com/knowledgebase/publishing-rtcm-data-formsrtk-modules/
5





Failure in Antenna-Status: If the antenna-Status problem stays the same after some
retries, to long antenna cables could lead to a missing recognition of the antenna from
the GNSS-receiver side. The text field “Antenna-Status” shows ERROR or SHORT in that
case.
No Data received/ No Satellites visible: Please check this step with GNSS antennas
outdoor.

Figure 35: Step-3, Proving GNSS antenna connection

3.3.4. Wizard Step-4
The user has two options for calibrating the stationary position of the RTK/RTCM Reference
Station:


External RTK correction data: Use this option to calibrate your Reference Station
with centimeter-accurate position. To do this, the user needs an external RTK
correction input-stream from an appropriate correction-data service-provider with
centimeter accuracy (e.g., SAPOS, Axio-Net). Depending on your service-level,
ANavS® can do this also for you. The advantage of this mode is a precise relative and
absolute position estimation of your rover equipped with MS-RTK module and its
tightly coupled ANavS® sensor fusion framework.



NOTE: To stream the correction data from external service provider, your RTK
Reference Station needs internet access (e.g., through the integrated mobile
network module or ethernet connection to a router).
Filtered Least-Squares Position-Solution: This is the standard way to calibrate a
rough position estimation for the Reference Station. The user can do this without the
need of additional services. It has no influence on the accuracy of the relative
position-solution between rover (MS-RTK module) and Reference Station, but the
absolute position includes a position-offset depending on the accuracy of the
position of the RTCM base station.

Figure 36: Step-4, select the mode for RTK/RTCM Reference Station position calibration

3.3.5. Wizard Step-5
Figure 37 shows Step-5 of the ANavS® Wizard for Reference Station calibration. Hereby, the
user can define the error-bound which must be reached and the time for averaging after being
below this defined error-bound. After attaining the limits, the calibration stops, and the
position is stored permanently on the Reference Station (also after reboot of the system).

Figure 37: Step-5, Starting calibration process of Reference Station

3.4. Receiving RTCM-Messages from the RTK/RTCM Reference Station
The Reference Station provides an NTRIP-Server which converts the GNSS data into the
standardized RTCM 3.2 Format and connects either to a local NTRIP-caster (on the Reference
Station itself) or to a cloud-based NTRIP-caster, hosted by ANavS (without fee). To receive this
RTK correction data from your Reference Station one could use the own local network or the
ANavS cloud-based correction data service via internet-connection.
An example of a defined RTK correction data stream with the ANavS cloud-based correction
data service is:
Username:
RTCM_User
Password:
anavs123
IP/URL:
customer-specific; info is included in the system delivery
Port:
customer-specific; info is included in the system delivery
Mountpoint:
ANAVS
This results in the following NTRIP input stream for your MS-RTK module or ISP:
RTCM_User:anavs123@<customer-specific-IP>:<customer-specific-Port>/ANAVS

